# FerociousStrike's Gemlog

## 10.30.2021 Being Oncall

I'm pretty sure that no one likes being oncall. Well, perhaps it's not so bad if you really need the bonus or overtime, or if you are in a position fortunate enough to not receive much in the way of pages. I am not in such a position. I work in an internal IT help desk position for a fairly large US based retailer with over 500 locations. During a one week oncall rotation, I can expected to be woken up almost every night. Sometimes 3-4 times a night. I think my record is 6 calls in one night. A night which I did not sleep at all and ended up having to call in. I wasn't able to sleep that day either since I kept receiving pages during the day too. :/

Well, yesterday just ended my latest oncall rotation and I finally got to get a full nights sleep without worrying about being startled awaken in the middle of the night for what would likely have been a false positive. I typically receive only a handful of legitimate high priority issues in a week, which is a really frustrating aspect of it. Even when I don't receive any calls, my quality of sleep tends to be really poor and I keep waking up every once in a while afraid that I may have missed a page. I managed to come down with a bit of a stomach bug this past Wednesday and I'm pretty sure that the lack of sleep and stress of being oncall had a lot to do with it. My main methods for self-care involve getting enough sleep and exercise. I definitely was not getting enough of either this week.

Again, I don't think I am the only one that feels this way about being oncall, but I haven't heard too many complaints from my coworkers. I do have a history of anxiety, but I suspect that others are likely suffering in silence here. In any case, I am incredibly happy to be free from the obligations of being oncall this weekend and I'm going to try taking a bit easy to recover from the experience.